---
title: "Cynical Theories Intro"
date: 2020-12-26T22:41:02-05:00
draft: true
---

The recently published book titled, "Cynical Theories: How Activist Scholar..." by Helen Pluckrose and James Lindsay has two main points. The first point is to explain Critical Theory, show how it has infected many areas of life, and make the case for why it is so harmful. The book starts by opening up the connection between Critical Theory and Post Modern philosophy. It then spends five chapters focusing on a particular area of study where Critical Theory has made an impact: such as feminism and Critical Race Theory. Next, the authors demonstrate how Critical Theory is applied in the thing we all know of as "Social Justice."

The second main point of the book is to make a case for an alternative worldview. The authors make allusions to it throughout the book, but they save their energy mostly for the final chapter where they make the case that we should not view the world through Critical Theory, but that we should, instead, return to the Liberalism that got us here in the first place.

I intend to review this book in a series of posts. I think the authors have done the world of noble service in helping to explain and expose Critical Theory. It all sounds very academic, but it's really not. Christians feel the pressure increasing, and so we need to understand it and know how to stand against it.

The danger of this book is that the authors are not only not Christians, they are anti-Christian. James Lindsay, for instance, has written books titled... He wants to "psychologize" faith. And their recommendation of how to fill the vacuum created by these anti-Christian philosophies are, themselves, very anti-Christian. Essentially, they believe in the concept of the "ascent of man."

The danger for Christians, then, is that you may be seduced by th