---
author: "Lucas Weeks"
title: "The true Light which enlightens every man..."
date: 2021-03-30
draft: true
---

> There was the true Light which, coming into the world, enlightens every man. He was in the world, and the world was made through Him, and the world did not know Him. He came to His own, and those who were His own did not receive Him. But as many as received Him, to them He gave the right to become children of God, even to those who believe in His name, who were born, not of blood nor of the will of the flesh nor of the will of man, but of God.
> 
> John 1:9-13

It is a paradox of life that you can be dead, even as you live. You can be sleeping even when you're awake, and you can be blind even though you see.

So... how would you know? How do you know whether you are dead or alive if you are physically living and breathing?

This thought came to me as I was reading Saul Alinksy's book, *Rules for Radicals*:

> But it’s more than that. It is a desperate search for personal identity – to let other people know that at least you are alive. Let’s take a common case in the ghetto. A man is living in a slum tenement. He doesn’t know anybody and nobody knows him. He doesn’t care for anyone because no one cares for him. On the corner newsstand are newspapers with pictures of people like mayor Daley and other people from a different world – a world that he doesn’t know, a world that doesn’t know that he is even alive.
> 
> When the organizer approaches him part of what begins to be communicated is that through the organization and its power he will get his birth certificate for life, that he will become known, that things will change from the drabness of a life where all that changes is the calendar. The same man, in a demonstration at City Hall, might find himself confronting the mayor and saying, “Mr. Mayor, we have had it up to here and we are not going to take it anymore.“ Television cameramen put their microphones in front of him and ask, “What is your name, sir?” “John Smith.” Nobody ever asked him what his name was before. Nobody ever asked him what he thought about anything before. Suddenly he’s alive! This is part of the adventure, part of what is so important to people in getting involved in organizational activities and what the organizer has to communicate to him.

Saul Alinsky came from an orthodox Russian Jewish family. They were very poor, and his parents divorced when he was 18. I don't know what his religious convictions, but he certainly wasn't a Christian. It seems like he was an old school liberal: he really believed in people. The ascent of man, and all that.

And people loved him. You knew you were getting the real deal with him. He was shooting straight with you.

But fighting poverty was his whole mission - it's what he believed in. I don't know whether or not he believed in God or in eternity, but, clearly, he was focussed on the hear and now. And that's pretty typical of humanist liberal types.

But... that was enlightenment to him. And I think it worked, in part, because he was surfing off the benefits of a Christian culture. That's what humanistic liberalism does - it takes the good stuff and says that we can dispense with the spiritual side of things. But it's complete bunk.

What do we think it is, today?

And that's just it - while Alinsky wasn't self-consciously attacking the foundations of western civilization, Christianity, his descendents are. So, the woke religion of Black Lives Matter is acting like a wrecking ball in our culture, and according to woke SJW's, that's precisely the point.

Despite the fact that they will be standing in a pile of ash and cinder when they are done dismantling the culture, this wokism really is their enlightenment. It gives them purpose and direction, helps them organize, they have community and meaning in it. They have rituals and traditions that point them to their larger goals and meaning.

But this is not the religion of Jesus Christ.

What other forms of enlightenment are there?

- Eastern mysticism (why does this have such cache?)
- Feminism
- Getting Things Done
- ETc.

The WORLD did not receive Him (What does that mean?)

Then HIS OWN did not receive Him (what does that mean for us?)

That even when we think we see, we don't see.


What am I driving at?

Jesus is the true Light, and you're probably dead.

Now, this makes us uncomfortable, because we are good little protestants and we've said the prayer.

But dead, rote religion is always just around the corner. It doesn't matter how loud your church band is or how cool the youth group programs are. Going to church and mouthing the words to the songs does not mean that you are alive. It does not mean that you see.

Danger
Risk
Suffering
Meaning

1. We are all commanded to be holy
2. Holiness isn’t special, hidden knowledge
3. Holiness can’t be bought
4. Holiness can’t be hired out
5. Holiness is a fruit, not a root
6. Holiness is difficult and costly
7. Holiness is for everyday life
8. Holiness is a non-negotiable